[music playing]
- I'M A SCIENCE-FICTION FAN,
AND I'VE LONG FELT
THAT THIS AGENCY
OUGHT TO BE ON OUR WAY
TO THE STARS.
SO--AND WE ARE.
BUT I THINK SOME OF THE THINGS
YOU'RE GONNA HEAR TODAY
MAY GET US THERE
A LOT FASTER.
SO THIS, YOU KNOW, OUR--
I THINK IT'S THE PENULTIMATE
TALK IN THE SUMMER SERIES.
THIS IS A SERIES TO CELEBRATE
NASA AMES' 75TH ANNIVERSARY.
BY THE WAY,
AT THE PICNIC THE OTHER DAY,
I MET A FELLOW
THAT STARTED WORKING HERE
RIGHT AFTER WE WERE FOUNDED
IN 1940,
SO, REALLY COOL.
SO AMES IS GOOD FOR YOUR HEALTH.
[laughter]
THAT DOESN'T WORK STATISTICALLY?
BUT TODAY WE HAVE
DR. HAROLD "SONNY" WHITE,
IS OUR GUEST.
HE HOLDS A Ph.D. IN PHYSICS
FROM RICE UNIVERSITY,
A MASTER OF SCIENCE
IN MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
FROM WICHITA STATE UNIVERSITY,
AND A BACHELOR OF SCIENCE
IN MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
FROM THE UNIVERSITY
OF SOUTH ALABAMA.
HE CURRENTLY SERVES
AS THE ADVANCED PROPULSION
THEME LEAD
FOR THE NASA
ENGINEERING DIRECTORATE
AND IS THE JSC REPRESENTATIVE
TO THE NUCLEAR SYSTEMS
WORKING GROUP.
KIND OF COOL STUFF.
HE IS SERVING TO HELP THE AGENCY
INCORPORATE HIGH TRL
ADVANCED POWER
AND PROPULSION TECHNOLOGIES
INTO NEAR AND MID-TERM
HUMAN EXPLORATION ARCHITECTURES.
BUT HE'S ALSO PURSUING
THEORETICAL AND
LABORATORY RESEARCH
ON DEVELOPING LOWER TRL
ADVANCED PROPULSION
AND POWER TECHNOLOGIES
IN THE ADVANCED PROPULSION
PHYSICS LABORATORY
KNOWN AS EAGLEWORKS.
THAT IS LOCATED
AT THE JOHNSON SPACE CENTER,
WHICH I'M ON MY WAY TO
THIS AFTERNOON,
WHERE IT'S 98 DEGREES
WHEN I LOOKED AT THE--
AND THE HUMIDITY, I THINK,
IS ABOUT THE SAME.
SO BE GLAD
YOU'RE IN CALIFORNIA.
OH, BY THE WAY,
BEFORE I GO ON,
TOMORROW IS A TALK
ON A LOT LESS FUN TOPIC,
BUT ONE YOU ALL NEED TO KNOW.
IT'S ABOUT EXPORT CONTROL.
SO I DO URGE ALL THE STAFF
TO BE HERE.
THE--CHUCK DUFF WILL BE TAKING,
YOU KNOW, ATTENDANCE.
I PARTICULARLY WANT
THE MANAGERS TO BE HERE.
I GOT IN TROUBLE
OVER THAT STUFF A FEW YEARS AGO.
SO WE'RE GONNA DO
A LOT BETTER.
BUT, WITHOUT FURTHER ADO,
LET ME SAY HELLO
TO MY FRIEND AND MY COLLEAGUE,
SONNY WHITE
FROM JOHNSON SPACE CENTER.
THE STAGE IS YOURS.
- THANKS, PETE;
APPRECIATE IT.
[applause]
THANK YOU, EVERYBODY.
THANKS FOR COMING
TO JOIN ME TODAY.
AS PART OF COMING
INTO THIS SERIES,
I WAS ASKED TO MAYBE TALK
A LITTLE BIT
ABOUT WHAT GOT ME INTO WORKING
IN THE SPACE INDUSTRY,
WHAT WAS SOME OF THE BACKGROUND
THAT INSPIRED ME.
I GREW UP IN WASHINGTON, D.C.,
JUST OUTSIDE OF D.C.,
IN VIRGINIA,
AND SPENT QUITE A BIT OF TIME
GOING TO THE AIR AND SPACE
SMITHSONIAN IN D.C.,
AND I WAS REALLY INSPIRED
BY ALL OF THE DISPLAYS
THAT THEY HAD THERE
OF THE APOLLO PROGRAM,
A LOT OF THE AIRCRAFT.
SO I THINK I GOT THE BUG
AT A VERY EARLY AGE
TO WANT TO GET
INTO THE SPACE PROGRAM.
SO IT WAS QUITE A TREAT
TO BE ABLE
TO EVENTUALLY FIND MY WAY
WORKING AT NASA
ON HUMAN SPACEFLIGHT
BACK IN 2000.
SO HOPEFULLY WE'LL HAVE
A LOT OF YEARS IN THE FUTURE
TO TRY AND CONTRIBUTE
TO THE CAUSE
THAT WE ALL KIND OF CARE ABOUT,
IN TERMS OF TRYING
TO GO AND EXPLORE
AND FIGURE OUT SOME NEW THINGS.
JUST A LITTLE BIT OF BACKGROUND
ON SOME OF THE STUFF THAT I DO
THAT'S A LITTLE BIT HIGHER
IN THE TRL.
PETE TALKED ABOUT THE FACT
THAT I DO WORK
WITH SOME HIGHER TRL STUFF.
I'VE DONE SOME WORK
WITH TRYING TO INTEGRATE
THINGS LIKE HALL THRUSTERS
INTO HUMAN SPACEFLIGHT.
AND YOU SEE A LITTLE--
A MONTAGE OF SOME
OF THE PROJECTS I'VE WORKED
OVER THE LAST COUPLE YEARS,
TRYING TO INTEGRATE
THINGS LIKE HALL THRUSTERS
INTO HUMAN SPACEFLIGHT
PLATFORMS.
YOU SEE, ON THE TOP LEFT THERE,
THE INTERNATIONAL SPACE STATION.
WE LOOKED AT USING
HALL THRUSTERS
TO PROVIDE SOME DRAG MAKEUP.
SO WE SPENT SOME TIME
TRYING TO FIGURE OUT
HOW TO INTEGRATE THOSE
ONTO THE SPACE STATION.
TYPICALLY,
IN HUMAN SPACEFLIGHT,
WE ALWAYS THINK OF ROCKETS
THAT HAVE NOZZLES,
AND THEY MAKE A LOT OF SMOKE
AND A LOT OF NOISE
AND HAVE A THRUST-TO-WEIGHT
RATIO GREATER THAN ONE.
SO IT TOOK A LITTLE BIT
OF TIME AND EFFORT
TO HELP PEOPLE OVERCOME
THE PERSPECTIVE
THAT LOW THRUST
MIGHT NOT NECESSARILY
BE SOMETHING THAT WE CAN USE,
BUT IT TURNS OUT
IT REALLY CAN HELP
WITH HUMAN SPACE EXPLORATION.
AND SO WE LOOKED
AT SEVERAL OTHER THINGS
ABOUT USING LOW THRUST
IN SPACE PROPULSION SYSTEMS.
ON THE BOTTOM RIGHT,
YOU SEE A CONCEPT
THAT LOOKED AT TRYING
TO USE HALL THRUSTERS
WITH SOME ASSETS IN THE
EARTH-MOON LAGRANGE POINT AREA.
THIS WAS KIND OF A PRECURSOR
TO THE ASTEROID MISSION.
AND WE ALSO DID SOME WORK
WITH DARPA
TO KIND OF THINK ABOUT WAYS
THAT WE MIGHT BE ABLE TO DO
SOME COLLABORATIVE EFFORTS.
BUT THESE ARE ALL CONCEPTS
THAT TRY AND ADDRESS
GETTING OUT OF LOW EARTH ORBIT
INTO CIS/TRANS LUNAR SPACE,
MAYBE ONE DAY OUT TO MARS.
IT'S AT 1 1/2 A.U.
BUT WHAT IF WE WANT
TO GO THROUGH
AND EXPLORE THE REST
OF THE SOLAR SYSTEM?
WHAT IF WE WANT TO GET OUT TO
SOME OTHER LOCATIONS WITH PEOPLE
IN THE OUTER SOLAR SYSTEM?
WHAT IF WE REALLY WANT
TO TRY AND GO
TO SOMEPLACE
THAT'S EVEN FURTHER,
SOME TYPE OF
AN INTERSTELLAR DESTINATION?
I THINK YOU HAVE A TALK
ON KEPLER IN A COUPLE OF DAYS.
AND KEPLER'S IDENTIFYING
A LOT OF VERY NEAT THINGS
THAT ARE OUT THERE,
AND WE'RE FINDING OUT
THAT THERE'S A LOT
OF PLANETS OUT THERE,
AND OUR SOLAR SYSTEM
IS NOT UNIQUE
FROM THE STANDPOINT
THAT IT HAS BODIES
THAT ORBIT THE SUN.
SO THAT TENDS
TO MAKE YOU THINK ABOUT,
"WHAT DOES IT TAKE
TO ACTUALLY ACCOMPLISH THAT?"
SO LET'S SEGUE INTO
A MUCH LOWER TRL DISCUSSION.
I'LL TALK ABOUT TWO THINGS:
A LITTLE BIT ABOUT THE IDEA
OF A SPACEWARP,
AND THEN WE'LL TALK ABOUT
A FORM OF ELECTRIC PROPULSION
YOU MIGHT HAVE SEEN IN THE NEWS
WE'RE WORKING ON AT JSC
CALLED Q-THRUSTERS.
AND SO WE'LL TALK TO YOU GUYS
A LITTLE BIT ABOUT THAT
AND SOME OF THE DATA
WE PRESENTED
AT THE JOINT PROPULSION
CONFERENCE IN OHIO.
SO, WHEN WE TALK
ABOUT INTERSTELLAR SPACEFLIGHT,
A LOT OF PEOPLE
REALLY HAVE NO GRASP
ON HOW FAR THESE DISTANCES ARE,
COMPARED TO WHAT
WE CAN DO TODAY.
SO I THINK,
IN TERMS OF STATE-OF-THE-ART,
THE "VOYAGER 1" SPACECRAFT
IS A REALLY GOOD ILLUSTRATION
OF THE BEST
THAT WE'VE DONE SO FAR
IN TERMS OF
AN INTERSTELLAR MISSION.
SO THE "VOYAGER 1" SPACECRAFT
WAS LAUNCHED IN THE LATE '70s.
IT GAVE US ALL THOSE
REALLY NICE PICTURES
OF THE OUTER PLANETS
IN THE SOLAR SYSTEM
THAT KIND OF INSPIRED US.
IT'S BEEN ON ITS WAY
FOR ABOUT 30 YEARS.
IT'S MOVING AT ABOUT
3.6 A.U. PER YEAR.
AN A.U. IS THE DISTANCE
FROM THE EARTH TO THE SUN.
IT'S CURRENTLY AT ABOUT
120 ASTRONOMICAL UNITS
OUT INTO THE SOLAR SYSTEM.
SO WE COULD ASK THE QUESTION:
HOW LONG WOULD IT TAKE
"VOYAGER 1"
TO MAKE IT TO OUR NEAREST STAR
IF IT HAPPENED TO BE GOING
IN THE RIGHT DIRECTION?
IT TURNS OUT IT'S NOT.
ALPHA CENTAURI IS ALMOST
DUE SOUTH FROM THE PLANET.
BUT IF IT HAPPENED TO BE POINTED
IN THE RIGHT DIRECTION,
HOW LONG WOULD IT TAKE FOR IT
TO GET TO ALPHA CENTAURI?
IT TURNS OUT IT WOULD TAKE
A RIDICULOUSLY LONG
PERIOD OF TIME,
75,000 YEARS.
AND SO,
I DON'T KNOW ABOUT YOU GUYS.
THAT'S A REALLY LONG TIME
TO SIT ON CONSOLE, SO...
BUT ANYWAY, IT REALLY DOES
HIGHLIGHT THE FACT
THAT INTERSTELLAR DISTANCES
ARE VERY, VERY DIFFICULT
COMPARED TO ANYTHING
THAT WE'VE DONE
OR EVER THOUGHT ABOUT DOING.
TO KIND OF CONTINUE
TO HIGHLIGHT THE CHALLENGES
ASSOCIATED WITH
INTERSTELLAR SPACEFLIGHT,
I WANT TO TALK ABOUT A PROJECT
THAT WAS CONVENED
BY THE BRITISH
INTERPLANETARY SOCIETY
BACK IN THE '70s
TO LOOK AT GOING
TO BARNARD'S STAR.
THAT'S ABOUT 6 LIGHT-YEARS AWAY.
THEY WANTED TO GET THERE
IN 50 YEARS.
THE SPACECRAFT THAT THEY
DEVELOPED AS PART OF THAT STUDY,
USING--I THINK THIS WAS
PULSED FUSION PROPULSION.
THE SPACECRAFT THEY DEVELOPED
AND PUBLISHED IN THEIR PAPER
WAS PRETTY BIG,
AROUND 54,000 METRIC TONS.
AND YOU KIND OF SEE
A PHOTO THERE
THAT COMPARES TO THE "DAEDELUS"
TO THE SATURN V ROCKET
TO SCALE.
AND I'VE ALSO INTERPOSED
A PICTURE OF THE INTERNATIONAL
SPACE STATION AS A COMPARISON.
AND SO I SAT ON CONSOLE
FOR ALMOST ALL THE MISSIONS
THAT BUILT THE
INTERNATIONAL SPACE STATION,
AND IT TOOK ALL THE RESOURCES
OF ALL THE MAJOR
SPACE-FARING NATIONS
OVER TEN YEARS
TO ASSEMBLE THE SPACE STATION.
AND THAT'S ONLY 450 TONS.
SO THAT'S OVER 100 TIMES
MORE MASS
THAN THE INTERNATIONAL
SPACE STATION.
SO INTERSTELLAR FLIGHT
IS EXTREMELY DIFFICULT
AND CAN BE A VERY
TIME-CONSUMING PURSUIT.
SO YOU COULD ASK THE QUESTION:
WHAT IF YOU WANTED TO GET
SOMEWHERE VERY QUICKLY?
WHAT IF YOU WANTED TO TRY
AND COVER THAT DISTANCE
FROM ALPHA CENTAURI
IN SOME TIME PERIOD
THAT'S NOT MEASURED IN DECADES,
CENTURIES, OR MILLENNIA?
WHAT IF YOU WANTED TO MAKE IT
IN LESS THAN FOUR YEARS?
IT TURNS OUT
THAT THE SAME FRAMEWORK
THAT ESTABLISHES
THE SPEED LIMIT,
THE COSMIC SPEED LIMIT--
YOU CANNOT EXCEED
THE SPEED OF LIGHT.
THERE ARE TWO LOOPHOLES
WITHIN THE MATHEMATICS
OF GENERAL RELATIVITY
THAT POTENTIALLY ALLOW YOU
TO GO SOMEWHERE VERY QUICKLY
WITHOUT LOCALLY
LEAVING YOUR LOCAL LIGHT CONE.
ONE IS THE IDEA OF A WORMHOLE,
AND THE OTHER IS THE IDEA
OF A SPACEWARP.
AND I'LL TALK A LITTLE BIT
ABOUT THAT.
SO THE IDEA OF A SPACEWARP
WORKS ON THE PRINCIPLE
THAT YOU EXPAND AND CONTRACT
SPACE AT ANY SPEED.
IT'S NOT RESTRICTED TO "C."
WE KNOW THAT INFLATION OCCURS
IN NATURE.
WHEN WE LOOK AT LIGHT
THAT COMES TO US
FROM STARS THAT ARE IN GALAXIES
VERY FAR AWAY FROM US,
THAT LIGHT HAS BEEN RED-SHIFTED
SINCE THE BIG BANG
13.7 BILLION YEARS AGO.
SO WE KNOW THAT INFLATION
IS A REAL PHENOMENON,
AND IT'S PART
OF GENERAL RELATIVITY.
AND SO NATURE CAN DO IT.
CAN WE DO IT
IN SOME PURPOSEFUL WAY?
AND SO IT WAS THIS IDEA
THAT MOTIVATED MIGUEL ALCUBIERRE
TO PUBLISH A PAPER IN THE '90s
THAT KIND OF CAPTURED THIS IDEA
IN MATHEMATICS.
AND YOU SEE THE CONCEPT HERE
ON THE SCREEN.
AND SO, WHEN YOU LOOK
AT THE MATH
AND YOU TRY AND ENVISION
WHAT IT MIGHT REQUIRE,
YOU SEE A LITTLE
SURFACE PLOT THERE
THAT REPRESENTS THE EXPANSION
AND CONTRACTION OF SPACE.
SPACE IS CONTRACTING HERE
IN THE FRONT OF THE SPACECRAFT.
AND SPACE IS EXPANDING HERE
IN THE BACK.
WHEN YOU LOOK
AT THE ENERGY DENSITY TERM,
YOU END UP WITH A SPACECRAFT
THAT HAS THIS DONUT
TYPE OF APPARATUS
THAT SURROUNDS THIS LITTLE
FOOTBALL-SHAPED SPACECRAFT.
AND SO THE FOOTBALL SHAPE
MIGHT BE WHERE YOU'D HAVE
YOUR SENSITIVE INSTRUMENTATION
OR ANY PAYLOAD
THAT YOU'RE VERY WORRIED ABOUT,
OR IF YOU WANTED TO BE BOLD,
MAYBE SOME TYPE
OF A HUMAN CREW.
NOW, THE METRIC HAD A LOT OF
GOOD, APPEALING CHARACTERISTICS
WHEN YOU THINK ABOUT THE IDEA.
THAT LITTLE CENTER AREA,
THAT BLUE DISC
YOU SEE ON THE SCREEN,
IT HAS A COUPLE
OF GOOD CHARACTERISTICS
FOR THE CONCEPT
OF A MISSION LIKE THIS.
IT HAS--
THE DIVERGENCE OF PHI IS ZERO.
SO THE--
IT HAS FLAT SPACE-TIME
INSIDE OF THE BUBBLE.
THE COORDINATE TIME
IS EQUAL TO PROPER TIME
INSIDE OF THAT FLAT REGION.
SO THE MISSION CONTROL CLOCKS
WOULD BE SYNCHRONIZED
WITH THE CLOCKS
ONBOARD THE SPACECRAFT.
THEN THE PROPER
ACCELERATION ALPHA IN THE BUBBLE
IS FORMALLY ZERO.
SO WHEN YOU TURNED ON
THE SPACEWARP SYSTEM,
THE WHOLE CREW WOULD NOT FEEL
AN INFINITE ACCELERATION
AND GO SMACKING
AGAINST THE BULKHEAD
AND KILLING EVERYBODY ONBOARD
AND MAKING FOR A VERY SAD
EPISODE OF "STAR TREK."
NOW, IT DOES HAVE ONE
UNAPPEALING CHARACTERISTIC.
AFTER MIGUEL PUBLISHED HIS PAPER
AND PEOPLE WENT TO GO TRY
AND FIGURE OUT,
"HOW MUCH STUFF WOULD IT TAKE
TO MAKE THIS CONCEPT WORK?"
BECAUSE IT REQUIRES
EXOTIC MATTER
OR NEGATIVE VACUUM ENERGY.
AND SO THEY DID
SOME CALCULATIONS TO FIGURE OUT,
"WHAT WOULD YOU NEED
TO MAKE SOME TYPE OF A SYSTEM
THAT WE WOULD THINK ABOUT
ACTUALLY WORK?"
AND SO THE BEST ESTIMATES
THAT WERE DONE PRIOR TO 2011
WERE DONE BY SOME COLLEAGUES
OF MINE,
DR. RICHARD OBOUSY
AND DR. JERRY CLEAVER.
THEY REDUCED THE AMOUNT
OF STUFF THAT'S REQUIRED
TO SOMETHING THAT'S
ABOUT THE SIZE OF JUPITER.
AND SO THAT'S JUST
QUITE IMPRACTICAL.
AND SO THE CONCEPT
WAS REALLY CONSIDERED
MAYBE NATURE CAN DO IT
ON A GRAND SCALE,
BUT IT'S UNLIKELY THAT WE COULD
EVER DO SOMETHING LIKE THIS
IN A PURPOSEFUL SENSE.
AND SO I GOT ASKED TO COME
TO THE 100 YEAR
STARSHIP SYMPOSIUM
AND GIVE A LITTLE BIT OF A TALK
ON THE CONCEPT OF A SPACEWARP.
SO, AS A RESULT OF PETE WORDEN
AND SOME OTHERS
KIND OF BEING VISIONARY
AND ASKING FOR FOLKS
TO KIND OF THINK ABOUT THIS
RATHER THAN JUST KIND OF
RELAY EVERYTHING
THAT HAD BEEN DONE BEFORE
BY MYSELF AND OTHERS,
I DECIDED TO DO
A SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS.
I WANTED TO LOOK AT WHAT HAPPENS
TO THE MATHEMATICS
WHEN I CHANGE
SOME OF THE INPUT PARAMETERS.
AND SO I LOOKED AT
AND FOCUSED ON, IN THIS CASE,
THE SHELL THICKNESS PARAMETER.
AND SO YOU SEE
A COUPLE OF STILLS THERE
FROM SOME VIDEOS WE'LL LOOK AT
IN JUST A SECOND.
SO THIS IS FOR
A 10-METER DIAMETER SPACECRAFT
WITH AN EFFECTIVE VELOCITY
OF 10C.
AND THE ONLY THING I'M CHANGING
IS THE SHELL THICKNESS
PARAMETER,
SO, INSTEAD OF HAVING
THAT FOOTBALL
WITH THE RING
THAT GOES AROUND IT,
INSTEAD OF THAT RING,
BEING A VERY THIN ASPECT RATIO
OF, SAY, LIKE A WEDDING BAND,
IF I CHANGE IT WHERE IT LOOKS
MORE LIKE A LIFESAVER
OR AN INNER TUBE,
I CAN GREATLY CHANGE
THE MAGNITUDE OF THE YORK TIME.
AND TO KIND OF PUT THAT
IN ENGINEERING PARLANCE,
KIND OF LIKE A STRAIN RATE,
SO TO SPEAK, ON SPACE-TIME.
AND WHEN YOU LOOK AT THE ENERGY
DENSITY ASSOCIATED WITH THAT,
THE ENERGY DENSITY
CHANGES SIGNIFICANTLY.
SO JUST SHOW YOU SOME OF
THE ANIMATIONS TO HELP YOU SEE.
SO, AS THE THICKNESS
OF THE BUBBLE GETS THICKER,
BECAUSE THE RING
IS GETTING THICKER,
THE MAGNITUDE OF THE YORK TIME
DECREASES SIGNIFICANTLY.
AND SIMILARLY,
FOR THE ENERGY DENSITY,
FOR THAT SAME SET OF CASES,
THE ENERGY DENSITY COLLAPSES
MANY ORDERS OF MAGNITUDE.
SO WHAT'S POTENTIALLY GOING ON
WITH THIS FINDING
IS THAT, BY CHANGING
THE STRAIN RATE
THAT WE'RE HAVING
TO PUT ON SPACE-TIME,
WE'RE CHANGING
HOW MUCH ENERGY IS REQUIRED
TO ACHIEVE THAT STRAIN RATE.
SO IF I WERE TO--
THIS PODIUM IS MADE OUT OF WOOD,
AND SO IT'S ABOUT, I DON'T KNOW,
3/4 OF AN INCH THICK.
IF I WERE TO TRY AND TAKE
MY THUMB AND MY FOREFINGER
AND COMPRESS THE WOOD,
AGAIN USING
AN ENGINEERING EXAMPLE,
COMPRESS THE WOOD
BY A QUARTER INCH,
YOU KNOW, I--
ALTHOUGH I'M FROM TEXAS,
I CAN'T DO THAT.
MAYBE PETE CAN, BUT...
IT'S BEYOND MY CAPACITY.
BUT IF I REDUCE THE STRAIN
THAT I HAVE TO PUT ON THE WOOD
TO MAYBE JUST A NANOMETER
OR TWO,
THEN MAYBE I COULD DO THAT.
SO THAT'S KIND OF
WHAT YOU'RE SEEING THERE,
IS, BY CHANGING THE STRAIN RATE
FOR THE SAME CASE,
WE ARE REDUCING THE ENERGY
THAT'S REQUIRED.
NOW, GOING BACK JUST TO
POINT SOMETHING OUT HERE,
THE--YOU'RE SACRIFICING
SOME REAL ESTATE
IN THE CENTER OF THE BUBBLE.
SO YOU SEE
THAT LITTLE FLAT ISLAND
WHERE THOSE IDEAL CONDITIONS ARE
IS CHANGING ITS OVERALL SIZE.
SO IT IS A LITTLE BIT
OF A TRADE.
HOW MUCH VOLUME DO YOU NEED
TO HOUSE WHATEVER
YOU'RE TRYING TO DO
IN SOME FICTIONAL SPACECRAFT?
NOW, SPACE-TIME
IS PRETTY STIFF.
THIS WOOD IS
A FAIRLY STIFF MATERIAL.
IF I COULD CHANGE
THE MATERIAL PROPERTIES
AND MAKE THE WOOD SEEM
MORE LIKE A FOAM,
THEN, FOR THE SAME STRAIN RATE,
I CAN FURTHER REDUCE
THE AMOUNT OF ENERGY
THAT'S NECESSARY
TO INDUCE THE AMOUNT OF STRAIN
ON THAT PIECE OF MATERIAL.
SO THE QUESTION
THAT I LOOKED AT NEXT:
IS THERE SOMETHING
THAT WE CAN DO
TO TRY AND LOOK AT THIS TERM
THAT'S IN THE EINSTEIN TENSOR,
IN THE ENERGY DENSITY TENSOR.
AND SO,
WHAT I DID NEXT
WAS LOOK AT EXPANDING
THE ALCUBIERRE METRIC
INTO A HIGHER-DIMENSIONAL
MANIFOLD.
AND SO I LOOKED
AT THE CHUNG-FREESE METRIC
AND DID SOME WORK WITH SOME
OF THE NULL-LIKE GEODESICS
BETWEEN THE TWO MODELS
AND FOUND THAT
IF YOU WERE TO GO THROUGH
AND VARY THE INTENSITY
IN THE RING,
YOU CAN CHANGE THE STIFFNESS
PROPERTIES OF SPACE
AND POTENTIALLY FURTHER REDUCE
THE AMOUNT OF STUFF
THAT'S NECESSARY
TO MAYBE MAKE THIS CONCEPT WORK.
SO I CULMINATED THE EFFORT
WITH A TABLE
THAT KIND OF LOOKED AT THIS
10-METER DIAMETER SPACECRAFT,
VARYING THE SHELL
THICKNESS PARAMETER
AND THE TIME-VARYING POTENTIAL,
D-PHI/DT.
AND I WANTED
TO DUPLICATE THE WORK
DONE BY RICHARD OBOUSY
AND JERRY CLEAVER,
SO I SET THE PARAMETERS
SUCH THAT I COULD REQUIRE
A JUPITER AMOUNT
OF EXOTIC MATTER UP HERE.
SO YOU CAN SEE ON THE BOTTOM
THERE'S SOME LITTLE CARTOONS
THAT SHOW THE RELATIVE
ASPECT RATIO OF THE RING
RELATIVE TO THE LITTLE
LOG SCALE HERE.
AND AS YOU GET FURTHER
TO THE LEFT,
THE RING IS GETTING
INFINITELY THIN.
AND SO WE CAN--
FOR THIS 10-METER DIAMETER
SPACECRAFT
WITH AN EFFECTIVE VELOCITY
OF 10C,
I CAN YIELD A SOLUTION
THAT REQUIRES A JUPITER AMOUNT
OF EXOTIC MATTER.
I COULD FORMALLY DRIVE IT
TO INFINITY.
BUT BY USING THESE
OPTIMIZATION TECHNIQUES,
WE CAN REDUCE IT,
NONTRIVIALLY,
TO, IN THIS CASE,
SOMETHING ABOUT THE SIZE
OF THE "VOYAGER 1" SPACECRAFT
IN TERMS OF THE EFFECTIVE MASS
OF WHAT YOU NEED
TO MAKE THE TRICK WORK.
SO, WHAT THIS DOES IS,
IT MOVES THE IDEA
FROM THE CATEGORY
OF COMPLETELY IMPOSSIBLE
TO MAYBE PLAUSIBLE.
IT DOESN'T SAY ANYTHING
ABOUT FEASIBLE.
SO, UNFORTUNATELY, THAT POINT
USUALLY GETS MISSED A LOT.
BUT AT LEAST
IT OPENS UP THE DOOR
THAT MAYBE IT'S INTERESTING
TO GO TRY AND PERFORM
SOME SMALL EXPERIMENTS
TO TRY AND SEE IF WE CAN CREATE
SOME TYPE OF CHANGES
IN OPTICAL PROPERTIES
IN A VERY SMALL SCALE
IN THE LABORATORY.
AND SO THAT'S SOME OF THE STUFF
WE'RE KIND OF ROLLING THE ROCK
DOWN THE ROAD WITH
AT OUR LAB AT JSC.
AND SO WE'VE GOT TWO APPARATUSES
THAT WE USE.
WE HAVE A TWYMAN-GREEN
INTERFEROMETER.
AND SO THIS IS WHERE
WE HAVE A TEST ARTICLE
THAT WE PUT ON ONE
OF THE REFERENCE LEGS
OF THE INTERFEROMETER,
AND WE CAN ENERGIZE
THE TEST ARTICLE
TO TRY AND CREATE A--
IN THIS CASE, WITH OUR
LOW-FIDELITY TEST ARTICLES,
CREATE A BLUE-SHIFTED FRAME
RELATIVE TO THE LAB
AND CHANGE THE PERCEIVED
PATH LENGTH
FOR THE PHOTONS
THAT MOVE THROUGH THIS REGION
ON THE INTERFEROMETER.
AND SO THERE'LL BE
A SLIGHT CHANGE
IN THE INTERFERENCE PATTERN
ON THE INTERFEROMETER
THAT WE CAN TRY AND DETECT
USING SOME OF THE SOFTWARE
ANALYSIS TECHNIQUES
AND MAYBE SEE IF WE CAN'T SEE
A MANIFESTATION OF THIS
IN A VERY SMALL SENSE.
THIS SHOWS A PICTURE
OF ONE OF THE TEST SETUPS
ON THE TWYMAN-GREEN.
SEE THE TEST ARTICLE THERE
ON ONE OF THE BEAM PATHS.
YOU'VE GOT THE LASER
ON THE LEFT.
IT'S A VERY STANDARD SETUP
FOR A TWYMAN-GREEN.
WE'VE GOT THE DETECTOR
ON THE RIGHT
THAT GOES THROUGH THE COMPUTER
THAT COLLECTS THE DATA
FOR THE DATA RUNS.
AND THEN THE OTHER TEST SETUP
THAT WE HAVE
IS A SLIGHTLY DIFFERENT
PERMUTATION
ON THE INTERFEROMETER.
WE HAVE A FABRY-PEROT
INTERFEROMETER.
AND SO THE ADVANTAGE
OF A FABRY-PEROT INTERFEROMETER
OVER A TWYMAN-GREEN
IS THAT YOU CAN
PASS A LIGHT BEAM
THROUGH A PARTICULAR REGION
OF INTEREST MANY, MANY TIMES.
AND SO, THAT INCREASES
THE MEASURED MAGNITUDE
OF THE EFFECT BY A COUPLE
OF ORDERS OF MAGNITUDE.
SO IT'S A WAY TO TAKE
A TEST IMPLEMENTATION
AND GET TO A LITTLE BIT HIGHER
LEVEL OF FIDELITY.
AND SO YOU CAN SEE ON
THE BOTTOM TWO PICTURES THERE,
THERE'S AN EXAMPLE
OF A SODIUM SOURCE
BEING RUN THROUGH
A MICHELSON-MORLEY TYPE
OF INTERFEROMETER.
YOU CAN SEE
THE INTERFERENCE PATTERN.
BUT IN THE FABRY-PEROT,
BECAUSE OF THESE MULTIPLE
CONSTRUCTIVE AND DESTRUCTIVE
INTERFERENCE PASSES,
YOU START TO SEE
THE ATOMIC STRUCTURE
OF THE SODIUM SOURCE,
AND SO YOU SEE THE DOUBLET
IN THE FABRY-PEROT.
AND SO YOU SEE
A TEST SETUP THERE
WITH THE LASER AND THE IMAGER
AND THEN THE FABRY-PEROT.
THAT'S IN THE REGION
WHERE WE WERE TRYING TO INDUCE
THE BLUE-SHIFTED FRAME
WITH THE LOW-FIDELITY
TEST ARTICLE.
NOW, THE PROCESS
OF DOING THE TEST--
WE DO TURN THE TEST ARTICLE
ON AND OFF
WITH A GIVEN FREQUENCY,
AND WE GO THROUGH INFOR--
YOU SEE AN IMAGE
ON THE TOP RIGHT
THAT SHOWS AN INTERFERENCE
PATTERN FROM THE IMAGER.
AND WE'LL GO THROUGH
AND RUN A TEST CYCLE
WHERE WE RUN IT
OVER AN EXTENDED PERIOD OF TIME.
AND THEN WE WILL DO AN FFT
FOR EACH AND EVERY PIXEL,
AND THEN WE WILL LOOK
FOR ENERGY IN THE SPECTRUM
BASED ON HOW WE WERE ENERGIZING
AND DE-ENERGIZING
THE TEST ARTICLE.
AND YOU SEE ON THE BOTTOM RIGHT,
THAT IS AN FFT
OF THE ENTIRE IMAGER--
THE FREQUENCY OF INTEREST.
IF THERE WERE
NO PHENOMENA PRESENT,
THEN, IN PRINCIPLE,
THAT SHOULD JUST SIMPLY BE
A FLAT, BLUE SURFACE.
WE SHOULDN'T SEE ANYTHING THERE.
HOWEVER, THERE ARE STILL--
WHEN YOU'RE WORKING WITH STUFF
OF THIS MAGNITUDE,
THERE ARE STILL FALSE POSITIVES.
SO WE WOULD, BY NO MEANS,
CONSIDER THIS DEFINITIVE.
THIS IS JUST INTERESTING,
AND WE'RE CONTINUING
TO TRY AND ELIMINATE
OTHER SOURCES
OF FALSE POSITIVES.
NOW, WE HAVE--
THERE'S A LAB AT JSC
THAT WAS BUILT
FOR THE APOLLO PROGRAM
WORKING WITH
INERTIAL MEASUREMENT UNITS.
WE KIND OF WERE ABLE
TO GET A LITTLE
SMALL FOOTPRINT IN THAT LAB
TO BE ABLE TO DO SOME WORK
AND TAKE ADVANTAGE
OF THE SEISMIC ISOLATION
THAT IT HAS.
YOU CAN SEE THE BIG
PNEUMATIC PIERS
THAT FLOATS THAT ENTIRE FLOOR.
IT'S A PRETTY SIZABLE LAB,
PROBABLY ABOUT
30 FEET BY 40 FEET,
SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
AND SO WE CAN FLOAT
THE WHOLE LAB
WHEN WE'RE DOING TESTING.
AND ALTHOUGH THE LAB,
WITHOUT BEING FLOATED,
IS PRETTY SEISMICALLY QUIET,
FLOATING IT DOES
MAKE A DIFFERENCE.
I WILL SAY THIS.
WHEN WE FIRST BROUGHT THE LAB
OUT OF THE RETIREMENT--
EXCUSE ME--THE FLOATING LAB
OUT OF RETIREMENT,
WE CLIMBED DOWN
INTO THE AREA THERE
WHERE YOU SEE THE GENTLEMAN
UNDERNEATH THE FLOOR.
WE FOUND A COUPLE OF SUITCASES
OF LUGGAGE DOWN THERE,
AND WE WERE A LITTLE NERVOUS
WHEN WE PULLED THOSE UP
AND WE OPENED THOSE,
WHAT MIGHT BE IN THOSE, BUT...
THERE WAS NOTHING IN THEM,
SO IT WAS NOTHING EXCITING,
SO...
SO, ANYWAY, THIS SHOWS
AN INTERFERENCE PATTERN
WITH THE LAB ISOLATED
AND THE LAB NOT ISOLATED,
IN TERMS OF THAT FLOATING LAB.
SO IT DOES MAKE
A LITTLE BIT OF DIFFERENCE
IN THE QUALITY OF THE DATA
THAT WE COLLECT.
BUT WE DO HAVE
BOTH OPTIONS OPEN,
DEPENDING UPON
HOW MUCH TIME WE HAVE
BEFORE WE RUN A CAMPAIGN
TO GET THE CENTER FOLKS OUT
TO FLOAT THE FLOOR.
I WILL SAY THIS.
THE FLOOR HAD NOT BEEN FLOATED
IN SUCH A LONG PERIOD OF TIME
THAT APPARENTLY
THAT HAD CHANGED THE DOORS,
AND WHEN WE FLOATED THE FLOOR
THE FIRST TIME,
IT ACTUALLY LOCKED US
IN THE ROOM,
BECAUSE IT FLOATED UP ABOVE
WHERE THE DOORS COULDN'T OPEN,
SO IT WAS--ANYWAY...
SO THE NEXT THING
WE'VE BEEN DOING
IS TRYING TO GET AWAY
FROM AN ENCAPSULATED FABRY-PEROT
AND GO TO AN OPEN-AIR
ETALON SET OF MIRRORS
WHERE POSITION THE MIRRORS
BASICALLY IN THE SAME
ORIENTATION THAT THEY WERE
INSIDE OF THE ENCAPSULATED
FABRY-PEROT,
JUST TRY TO GO THROUGH AND
ADDRESS SOME SOURCES OF MIMICRY
TO MAKE SURE,
"IS THE SIGNAL STILL THERE?
"CAN WE KILL THE SIGNAL
OR ATTRIBUTE IT
TO SOME BORING EXPLANATION?"
SO WE WENT THROUGH THE PROCESS
OF TAKING A LOOK
AT TESTING
WITH AN OPEN-AIR ETALON,
AND WE STILL SEE SOME ENERGY
IN THE SPECTRUM
WHERE WE WOULD ANTICIPATE
TO SEE IT.
BUT, AGAIN, THIS IS DEFINITELY
NOT DEFINITIVE, BY ANY STRETCH.
ANOTHER WAY TO TEST
AT SOME POINT
TO MAYBE ALSO ADDRESS
OTHER SOURCES OF MIMICRY
WOULD BE
A TIME-OF-FLIGHT APPROACH,
WHERE WE COULD TAKE
A HELIUM-NEON LASER
AND WE COULD RUN IT
THROUGH AN OPTICAL CHOPPER
THAT WOULD CREATE LIGHT PULSES
THAT WE COULD THEN SEND
THROUGH THIS RACETRACK
AND TIME HOW LONG IT TAKES
FOR A PHOTON
TO RUN THROUGH
THE TEST APPARATUS
WITH A TEST DEVICE
NOT ENERGIZED,
AND THEN TIME HOW LONG IT TAKES
FOR A PHOTON
TO RUN THROUGH
THE TEST APPARATUS
WITH THE DEVICE OFF--OR ON,
BACK AND FORTH,
AND COMPARE THE TWO,
AND THAT CAN BE A DIFFERENT WAY
OF DETECTING THE PHENOMENA.
IF YOU SAW SOME DATA THAT LOOKED
LIKE WHAT YOU WANTED
ON THIS APPARATUS,
IF YOU DIDN'T SEE
COMMENSURATE BEHAVIOR HERE,
THAT MIGHT BE A WAY
FOR YOU TO SAY
IT'S SOME OTHER,
BORING EXPLANATION.
NOW, THE ONE THING THAT, TO ME--
EVERYONE ALWAYS THINKS
ABOUT THE ROMANTIC VISION
ON THE RIGHT, RIGHT,
IN TERMS OF BEING ON THE BRIDGE
OF SOME SPACESHIP
GOING OFF TO DESTINATIONS
VERY, VERY FAR AWAY.
AND I THINK THAT'S IMPORTANT,
AND IT IS SOMETHING THAT KIND OF
MOTIVATES US IN SOME WAY,
BUT, YOU KNOW, I ALSO LOOK AT,
HOW DO WE--
YOU KNOW, WHAT DO WE DO
TO GET OUT OF LOW EARTH ORBIT?
WHAT DO WE NEED TO DO
TO SUPPORT AN ASTEROID MISSION
IN A DISTANT RETROGRADE ORBIT?
WHAT DO WE NEED TO DO
TO GET OUT TO MARS?
AND SO, IN TERMS OF
INTERSTELLAR PRECURSORS, RIGHT,
WE ONLY HAVE A SPACECRAFT
AT 120 A.U.,
SO WHILE I TALKED ABOUT 10C
FOR SOME OF THE STUFF I DID
FOR THE CALCULATIONS,
WHAT ABOUT 0.01C?
THAT'S A SIGNIFICANTLY LOWER
VELOCITY COMPARED TO THAT,
BUT COMPARED TO ANYTHING
WE'VE DONE TO DATE,
THAT'S UNBELIEVABLY FAST.
SO THAT MAY STILL HAVE
SOME INTEREST AT SOME POINT,
IF WE COULD EVER START
TO MATURE THIS
PAST JUST THE CONCEPT
IN A LAB PERSPECTIVE.
SO, YOU KNOW, IF WE WERE EVER
TO MOVE THINGS FORWARD,
THAT'S SOMETHING, TO ME,
THAT I THINK THERE'D BE PLENTY
OF INTERESTING APPLICATIONS
WITH SPEEDS LIKE THAT, SO...
NOW, THIS WAS--THIS IS KIND OF
LIKE AN EDUCATION OUTREACH PIECE
THAT I DID WITH SOME FOLKS
FROM CBS.
I WORKED WITH MIKE OKUDA
AND MARK RADEMAKER.
THE CONCEPT YOU SEE HERE
IS BASED ON SOME ARTWORK
THAT MATT JEFFRIES DID
BACK IN THE '60s
FOR THE TV SHOW.
HE'S THE GUY
THAT KIND OF CAME UP
WITH THE FAMILIAR SOMBRERO LOOK
THAT WE ALL KNOW
FROM THE TV SHOW.
AND SO HE HAD ANOTHER VERSION
THAT HE GENERATED
THAT, I THINK,
WAS ONE OF HIS FAVORITE.
AND SO THIS IS
A MODERN RENDERING
DONE BY MARK RADEMAKER
BASED ON THAT ARTISTIC CONCEPT
THAT HE DEVELOPED.
NOW, THE THING
THAT'S COOL TO ME IS,
YOU KNOW, JUST GOING
THROUGH THE MATH WITH YOU GUYS,
YOU CAN SEE
THAT THIS CONCEPT IS--
IT'S GOT SOME THINGS
THAT ARE ALMOST
WHAT THE MATHEMATICS REQUIRE.
IT'S GOT THESE RINGS
THAT GO AROUND THE SPACECRAFT,
AND IT'S GOT THIS
CENTRALLY LOCATED SPACECRAFT.
BUT IT DOES HAVE A FEW THINGS
THAT ARE NOT CORRECT,
BASED ON THE ENERGY
OPTIMIZATION FINDINGS
AND WHERE THE WORK BUBBLE
WOULD ACTUALLY BE.
THE RINGS ON THIS SPACECRAFT
ARE TOO THIN,
SO THEY'RE GONNA DRIVE
THE ENERGY REQUIREMENTS
TO BE NONTRIVIAL.
SO YOU'D WANT THE RINGS
TO BE A LITTLE DIFFERENT.
AND THEN THE CENTRAL PORTION
OF THE SPACECRAFT
IS NOT LOCATED PROPERLY.
AND SO, WHEN THE BUBBLE
WERE TO FORM,
IT WOULD ACTUALLY CUT THE BRIDGE
OFF THE SPACECRAFT,
AND THE BRIDGE WOULD FLOAT AWAY,
AND SCOTTY WOULD
PROBABLY BE FIRED.
SO I WORKED WITH THE GUYS
TO KIND OF UPGRADE THIS CONCEPT
WITH THE MATHEMATICS,
AND SO WE DID
AN EDUCATION OUTREACH
FOR, LIKE,
A SHIPS OF THE LINE CALENDAR,
WHERE WE HAD A LITTLE PARAGRAPH
THAT REMINDED PEOPLE,
"WE'RE STILL IN LOW EARTH ORBIT.
"WE'VE GOT A LOT
OF WORK TO GO DO.
"IF THIS IS INTERESTING TO YOU,
"THERE'S PLENTY OF OTHER WORK
THAT WE NEED TO WORK ON,
"SO PLEASE FOLLOW YOUR PASSION
AND WORK ON SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY,
ENGINEERING, AND MATHEMATICS."
BUT THE CONCEPT'S GOT
THESE MUCH THICKER RINGS,
SO THAT'S CONSIDERABLY
MORE ATHLETIC-LOOKING.
AND THEN THE LITTLE SPACESHIP
IS KIND OF MORE PROPERLY LOCATED
WITHIN WHAT WOULD BE CALLED
THE FITTING REGION.
SO IT'S IN THAT LITTLE
FLAT SPACE-TIME,
SO THINGS WOULD BE A LITTLE BIT
BETTER FOR THE CREW.
NOW, AS WE MOVE FORWARD,
WHAT WE WANT TO DO IS,
WE WANT TO MOVE TO
A HIGHER-FIDELITY TEST ARTICLE.
SO YOU SEE A CONCEPT
WE'RE STILL WORKING ON RIGHT NOW
IN TERMS OF SOME
OF THE ANALYSIS.
WE WANT TO EXPLORE
THE D-PHI/DT DEPENDENCY.
REMEMBER, I SAID THAT
THAT WAS ONE OF THE TWO
ENERGY OPTIMIZATION TECHNIQUES.
AND SO WE WANT TO GO THROUGH
AND EXPLORE
THE D-PHI/DT DEPENDENCY.
AND SOME OF THE STUFF
THAT WE'RE DOING
WITH THE Q-THRUSTER TECHNOLOGY
HAS SOME POTENTIAL PERTINENCE
TO THIS.
AND SO WE'RE USING
THE PHYSICS MODELS FOR THAT
TO KIND OF GUIDE
THE CONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
OF A TEST ARTICLE
TO GO THROUGH AND SEE
IF WE CAN'T EXPLORE
A MUCH LARGER MAGNITUDE
OF D-PHI/DT.
AND YOU KIND OF SEE
A LITTLE CARTOON
OF SOME OF THE MODES
WE'RE LOOKING AT
AND SOME OF THE SPECIFIC DETAILS
TO PUT ON THE INSIDE
OF THE TEST APPARATUS.
SO THAT TAKES ME THROUGH
TO THE NEXT ONE.
THAT'S KIND OF THE INTERSTELLAR
PORTION OF THE TALK.
I WANT TO SWITCH GEARS NOW
AND TALK A LITTLE BIT
ABOUT THE TECHNOLOGY
THAT WE'RE WORKING ON.
IT'S A LITTLE BIT HIGHER
IN TRL, POTENTIALLY.
A CONCEPT CALLED Q-THRUSTERS.
AND I WANT TO TALK
ABOUT SOME OF THE DATA
THAT I PRESENTED AT
THE JOINT PROPULSION CONFERENCE
SEVERAL WEEKS AGO.
SO A Q-THRUSTER IS A FORM
OF ELECTRIC PROPULSION
ANALOGOUS TO A HALL THRUSTER,
SO IT'S LOW-THRUST.
IT USES ELECTRIC
AND MAGNETIC FIELDS
TO WORK WITH CHARGED PARTICLES.
IN THIS CASE, WE'RE WORKING
ON THE QUANTUM VACUUM,
THE VIRTUAL ELECTRONS
AND POSITRONS,
PUSHING THEM IN ONE DIRECTION,
AND THE Q-THRUSTER RECOILS
IN THE OTHER DIRECTION
TO CONSERVE MOMENTUM.
SO A CLASSICAL ANALOGY
TO THINK ABOUT WITH THIS CONCEPT
IS TO IMAGINE A SUBMARINE THAT
HAS A PROPELLER ON THE BACK.
A SUBMARINE DOES NOT GO
TO ALL THE TROUBLE
TO PULL UP TO A DOCK
AND FILL UP A TANK FULL OF WATER
AND THEN EXPEL THAT WATER
THROUGH A NOZZLE
IN THE BACK OF THE SUBMARINE.
IT CAPITALIZES ON THE FACT
THAT IT'S EMBEDDED
IN ITS PROPELLANT.
SO THE PROPELLANT
IS ALL AROUND IT
IN THE FORM OF THE SEA WATER.
SO IT USES THE PROPELLER
ON THE BACK OF THE SUBMARINE
TO GENERATE A HYDRODYNAMIC
PRESSURE GRADIENT IN THE WATER,
AND SO THE WATER MOVES
IN ONE DIRECTION,
AND THE SUBMARINE MOVES
IN THE OTHER.
SO, ANALOGOUSLY,
A Q-THRUSTER IS PUSHING
OFF THE QUANTUM VACUUM,
PUSHING THE QUANTUM PARTICLES
IN ONE DIRECTION,
AND IN ORDER
TO CONSERVE MOMENTUM,
THE Q-THRUSTER MOVES
IN THE OTHER DIRECTION.
I LIKE THIS QUOTE
FROM ARTHUR C. CLARKE.
THIS WAS DONE IN 1980,
SO BACK WHEN I WAS
IN MIDDLE SCHOOL.
"IF VACUUM FLUCTUATIONS
CAN BE HARNESSED FOR PROPULSION
"BY ANYONE BESIDES
SCIENCE-FICTION WRITERS,
"THE PURELY ENGINEERING PROBLEMS
OF INTERSTELLAR FLIGHT
WOULD BE SOLVED."
BUT I'D ALSO BE KEEN
TO USE IT FOR MARS MISSIONS
AS WELL.
THIS SHOWS OUR TEST APPARATUS
THAT WE USE
TO MEASURE AND QUANTIFY
THE FORCE
FOR THE TEST ARTICLES,
THIS IS A LOW-THRUST
TORSION PENDULUM.
IT HAS ALL THE SIMILAR ELEMENTS
THAT YOU WOULD FIND
IN THE OTHER HIGH-FIDELITY
TORSION PENDULUMS THAT ARE USED
BY THE AGENCY AND ACADEMIA
AND INDUSTRY.
ON THE LEFT OVER HERE,
YOU SEE THESE THINGS
CALLED LINEAR FLEXURE BEARINGS.
SO THESE ARE THESE TWO
LITTLE BOXES RIGHT HERE.
THIS IS THE ACTUAL BAR
OF THE TORSION PENDULUM
THAT MOVES HORIZONTALLY
THIS WAY.
WE DO NOT HAVE ANY CABLES
ACROSS THE INTERFACE.
THE INTERFACE
IS A CABLE-FREE INTERFACE.
WE USE LIQUID METAL CONTACTS
WITH A LIQUID GALLON STAND,
SO WE PASS DC POWER,
DIGITAL AND ANALOG DATA
ACROSS THE INTERFACE.
WE DO NOT PASS RF
WE ACTUALLY HAVE THE--
YOU'LL SEE IN A MINUTE,
THE RF SOURCES ARE ACTUALLY
ON THE TORSION PENDULUM.
WE HAVE THE ABILITY
TO TEST DOWN TO VACUUM,
TO A FEW MICROTORR.
AND THEN THIS IS OUR--
IN TERMS OF MEASURING
AND QUANTIFYING THE FORCE,
THIS IS THE ELECTROSTATIC FIN
SYSTEM THAT WE USE
TO INPUT A CALIBRATION FORCE.
SO WE WOULD PUT IN A VOLTAGE
OF 100, 300 VOLTS,
AND THE BENEFIT
OF USING ELECTROSTATIC FINS,
IT'S NON-CONTACT WAY
TO INPUT A FORCE
INTO THE TORSION PENDULUM.
THE ADVANTAGE OF USING
THE ELECTROSTATIC FINS
IS THAT THE FORCE IS CONSTANT,
WHETHER YOU'RE 90% ENGAGED
OR 10% ENGAGED,
WHICH IS WHY IT'S USED
IN THIS PARTICULAR APPARATUS.
SO WHEN YOU TURN
ON THE CALIBRATION FORCE,
IT STAYS CONSTANT.
AND THEN WE MEASURE--
WE MEASURE DISPLACEMENT
USING THIS OPTICAL
DISPLACEMENT SENSOR HERE.
AND SO THIS MEASURES
DISPLACEMENT
AS A FUNCTION OF TIME,
AND THEN, THAT WAY, WE CAN
INPUT A CALIBRATION FORCE,
WE CAN TEST
SOME TEST APPARATUS,
AND THEN WE CAN QUANTIFY
WHAT TYPE OF FORCE WAS PRESENT
WHEN WE TESTED
THE TEST APPARATUS.
AND THEN WE HAVE
A MAGNETIC DAMPER HERE
THAT CONVERTS ROTATIONAL ENERGY
INTO HEAT ENERGY.
SO ONE OF THE TESTS
THAT WE DID BACK IN AUGUST,
WE PARTNERED WITH CANNAE
TO TEST A RF TEST ARTICLE
THAT THEY WERE KEEN TO EXPLORE,
SOME DEPENDENCY
ON GENERATING THRUST
WITH THE PRESENCE OF SOME
OF THESE RADIAL GROOVES
THAT GO AROUND THE PERIPHERY
OF THE THRUSTER.
SO YOU SEE, THIS IS A PICTURE
OF THE THRUSTER HERE.
THIS IS A--KIND OF LIKE
AN IMAGINARY CUT
THROUGH THE CENTER
OF THAT THRUSTER.
AND SO THESE RADIAL GROOVES
WOULD BE IN THE PERIPHERY
OF THIS BODY OF THE THRUSTER.
THIS IS THE RF POWER INPUT,
AND THIS IS THE SENSE ANTENNA.
SO THE CANNAE FOLKS FELT
THERE MIGHT BE SOME DEPENDENCY
ON THE PRESENCE OF THE SLOTS
IN THE TEST ARTICLE.
SO WE ASKED THEM TO BRING
A SLOTTED TEST ARTICLE
AND A NON-SLOTTED
TEST ARTICLE.
SO THIS GOES THROUGH AND SHOWS
TESTING SOME
OF THE TEST ARTICLES
ON THE TORSION PENDULUM.
YOU'VE GOT A PICTURE THERE.
THERE'S A BLOCK DIAGRAM
THAT SHOWS THE TEST ARTICLE.
WE'VE GOT THE VOLTAGE-CONTROLLED
OSCILLATOR,
THE VARIABLE-VOLTAGE ATTENUATOR
GOING INTO THE
DUAL-DIRECTIONAL COUPLER,
AND WE MEASURE THE FORWARD
AND REFLECTED POWER
ON THE TORSION PENDULUM,
AND THEN WE USE A WHIP ANTENNA
THROUGH ONE OF THE GLASS PORTS
IN THE VACUUM CHAMBER
FOR REAL-TIME TUNING.
THIS SHOWS A TYPICAL DATA RUN.
THIS IS THE OPTICAL
DISPLACEMENT SENSOR.
WE WOULD PUT IN
A CALIBRATION PULSE
FOR SOME PERIOD OF TIME,
TURN OFF THE CALIBRATION PULSE,
ENERGIZE THE TEST ARTICLE
FOR 30, 60, 90 SECONDS,
TURN THAT OFF, AND THEN RUN
ANOTHER CALIBRATION PULSE.
AND THAT WOULD BE CONSIDERED
A DATA RUN FOR THE TEST ARTICLE.
WE TOOK SOME INFRARED IMAGERY
OF THE TEST ARTICLE
ON THE TORSION PENDULUM
TO TRY AND UNDERSTAND WHAT TYPE
OF HEAT THE SYSTEM GENERATED.
IT'S A HIGH-Q RESONANCE SYSTEM,
SO THE TEST ARTICLE
IS NOT GOING TO GENERATE
A SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT OF HEAT.
MOST OF THE HEAT
WAS IN THE HEAT SINK
FOR THE RF AMPLIFIER,
AND WE ALWAYS KEPT THE AMPLIFIER
BELOW 100 DEGREES FAHRENHEIT.
WE DIDN'T WANT TO GET IT
TO OVER 100 DEGREES FAHRENHEIT.
SO YOU JUST KIND OF SEE
THE BREAKDOWN
OF THE TEMPERATURE THERE.
IT'S ABOUT 85 DEGREES
ON THE AMPLIFIER.
THIS SHOWS A SYNOPSIS
OF THE TEST RESULTS
WITH THE CANNAE TEST ARTICLE.
WE TESTED EACH TEST ARTICLE
IN A FORWARD AND REVERSE SENSE.
SO YOU SEE
IN THE PICTURES THERE,
WITH THE THRUST GOING
TO THE LEFT IN THE PICTURE
AND THE THRUST GOING
TO THE RIGHT.
BASICALLY, WE FLIPPED
THE TEST ARTICLE.
ALL THE OTHER
SUPPORTING ELEMENTS
WERE KEPT
IN THE SAME ORIENTATION.
THE--ON THE BACK
OF THE TORSION PENDULUM,
AS I NOTED, THE RF AMPLIFIER
SERVED AS THE COUNTERBALANCE
FOR THE TEST ARTICLE
THAT'S ON THE FRONT
OF THE TORSION PENDULUM.
AND WE ONLY PIPED ACROSS
DC POWER
AND DIGITAL AND ANALOG DATA
ACROSS THE INTERFACE.
SO FOR THE SLOTTED
TEST ARTICLE,
THE AVERAGE STRESS
WAS AROUND 40 MICRONEWTONS
IN THE FORWARD DIRECTION
AND ABOUT 49 MICRONEWTONS
IN THE REVERSE DIRECTION.
THE UN-SLOTTED
ALSO GENERATED THRUST
IN THE FORWARD
AND REVERSE DIRECTION
AT ABOUT 41
AND 23 MICRONEWTONS.
WE DID TEST A RF DUMMY LOAD
WHERE WE WOULD TAKE OFF
THE TEST ARTICLE
AND PUT THE DUMMY LOAD
ON THE TORSION PENDULUM,
ENERGIZE THE SYSTEM,
AND RUN ALL THE RF DRIVE
ELECTRONICS AT FULL POWER,
AND THAT GENERATED
NO DETECTABLE THRUST
WITH THIS CONFIGURATION.
SO THERE WAS NO OTHER
SYSTEMIC DEPENDENCIES
WITH THE RF EQUIPMENT.
NOW, THE--WE DID SOME WORK
IN COMSOL
TO TRY AND UNDERSTAND
WHAT WAS HAPPENING
WITH THE ELECTROMAGNETIC FIELDS
IN THE THRUSTER,
AND WE LOOKED
AT THE RF FEED SYSTEM
FOR THE TEST ARTICLE.
THE RF FEED SYSTEMS
HAD A DIELECTRIC SLUG
INSIDE AS PART
OF THE MATCHING NETWORK,
A DIELECTRIC SLUG, A PTFE.
AND WHEN WE LOOKED AT
THE ELECTRIC AND MAGNETIC FIELDS
IN THAT REGION,
THERE WAS A NET POINTING VECTOR,
AND SO WE SPECULATED
THAT THAT MIGHT BE
A QUARTER WAVE,
A RESONANCE SYSTEM
THAT MIGHT BE EXHIBITING
SOME Q-THRUSTER PHYSICS.
SO WE TOOK THE COMSOL
ANALYSIS RESULTS,
AND WE PLUGGED THEM INTO OUR
ANALYTICAL Q-THRUSTER MODEL,
AND BASED ON THE AS-TESTED
CONDITIONS FOR 25 WATTS
WITH A QUALITY FACTOR OF 8,000,
IT PREDICTED A POTENTIALLY
OBSERVED THRUST
OF 34 MICRONEWTONS.
THAT'S NOT DEFINITIVE,
BUT IT'S AT LEAST
WITHIN AN ORDER OF MAGNITUDE,
SO IT WAS INTERESTING TO US,
AND THAT MIGHT EXPLAIN
WHY THE SLOTTED
AND THE UN-SLOTTED
BOTH GENERATED THRUST.
TO US,
FROM THE Q-THRUSTER PERSPECTIVE,
THE BIG BELL THERE IS
JUST SIMPLY A MATCHING NETWORK
TO ESTABLISH
THE RIGHT CONDITIONS
IN THAT QUARTER WAVE
RESONANCE SYSTEM
THAT YOU SEE THERE ON THE RIGHT.
SO WE ALSO LOOKED
AT ANOTHER TOPOLOGY,
SO WE EXPLORED
A TAPERED THRUSTER APPROACH
BASED ON SOME WORK DONE
BY NORTHWEST POLYTECHNICAL
UNIVERSITY.
SEE YOU IN HOUSTON, PETE.
WE OPTIMIZED THE CONSTRUCTION
AND THE LOCATION
OF THE DIELECTRIC
AND THE ANTENNAS
USING COMSOL
AND THE Q-THRUSTER PHYSICS
TO TRY AN UNDERSTAND, YOU KNOW,
"CAN WE DEVELOP SOMETHING
THAT WITHIN 25 TO 30 WATTS
"CAN GENERATE FORCES
THAT WE CAN CLEARLY SEE
ON THE TORSION PENDULUM?"
SO IN THE PROCESS
OF DOING THAT,
WHEN YOU DEAL
WITH A TAPERED SYSTEM,
THERE'S A LOT OF DIFFERENT MODES
THAT YOU CAN EXHIBIT
IN A TAPERED SYSTEM,
SO WE USED COMSOL
TO GENERATE
ALL THE PREDICTED
NETWORK PARAMETERS
WHEN WE USE A VECTOR
NETWORK ANALYZER
TO GO THROUGH AND TAKE A LOOK
AT THE AS-BUILT SYSTEM
AND COMPARE IT
TO THE THEORETICAL SYSTEM
TO MAKE SURE WE'RE EXCITING
THE PARTICULAR MODES
THAT WE WANT TO EXCITE.
AND SO YOU SEE A SNAPSHOT
OF THE ANALYSIS
COMPARED TO THE OUTPUT FROM
THE VECTOR NETWORK ANALYZER.
THE ONE THING I WILL HIGHLIGHT
IS, THESE TYPES OF SITUATIONS
ARE A LITTLE PROBLEMATIC
FROM A TUNING PERSPECTIVE.
THAT'S WHERE YOU HAVE
POTENTIALLY TWO MODES
IN VERY CLOSE PROXIMITY
TO ONE ANOTHER.
AND SO, IF YOU TRY AND COUPLE
TO ONE OF THOSE TWO MODES,
IT CAN MAKE TUNING
A LITTLE DIFFICULT,
AND YOU CAN BOUNCE
BACK AND FORTH BETWEEN MODES,
AND THAT CAN BE
A LITTLE CHALLENGING
WHEN YOU'RE TRYING
TO GATHER DATA.
THIS SHOWS THE TEST ARTICLE
LOADED ON THE TORSION PENDULUM.
ON THE BOTTOM LEFT THERE,
YOU SEE THE TEST ARTICLE.
THE RF AMPLIFIER
IS ON THE FAR RIGHT.
IT'S GOT--IT GOES
TO THE DUAL-DIRECTIONAL COUPLER,
WHERE WE MEASURE
THE POWER FORWARD
AND POWER REFLECTED.
IT GOES THROUGH
SOME SHIELDED CABLING
INTO THE TEST ARTICLE.
WE DID GO THROUGH AND MEASURE
ALL OF THE LEAKING RF FIELDS.
THE SYSTEM WAS VERY RF QUIET.
ALL THE LEAKING FIELDS WERE LESS
THAN WHAT A CELL PHONE
WOULD PUT OUT.
SO WE HAD A VERY CLEAN
RF SYSTEM.
LET'S GO INTO THE DATA.
I THINK I'M RUNNING
A LITTLE LOW ON TIME HERE.
THIS SHOWS US TESTING
AT THE TE012 MODE.
USING THE COMSOL ANALYSIS,
IT PREDICTED FOR--
IT PREDICTED A QUALITY FACTOR
OF 22,000--
OR 21,800 COMPARED
TO THE 22,000 OBSERVED.
WE WERE ABLE TO GET
ABOUT 2.6 WATTS OF POWER
INTO THE TEST ARTICLE
IN THIS CONFIGURATION.
WITH THE COMSOL ANALYSIS
OF THE Q-THRUSTER PHYSICS,
IT PREDICTED A THRUST MAGNITUDE
OF ABOUT 50 MICRONEWTONS.
WE MEASURED
JUST A LITTLE OVER 55.
YOU SEE A THRUST RUN
UP THERE IN THE INSET
WITH A CALIBRATION PULSE,
ENERGIZING THE THRUSTER,
AND THEN ANOTHER
CALIBRATION PULSE.
THEN YOU SEE THE COMSOL ANALYSIS
OF THE FIELD CONDITIONS
ON THE TOP RIGHT,
AND THEN, AGAIN,
ANOTHER PICTURE
OF THE TEST ARTICLE
ON THE TORSION PENDULUM,
END ON.
THE TE012 MODE HAD--
IT WAS IN ONE OF THOSE AREAS
WHERE WE HAD ANOTHER MODE
IN VERY CLOSE PROXIMITY,
SO THAT MADE OPERATION MODE
DIFFICULT.
SO WE SWITCHED
TO THE TM211 MODE.
THERE'S ACTUALLY TWO OF THEM
ABOUT A FEW MEGAHERTZ
FROM ONE ANOTHER.
AND SO WE INVESTIGATED
THE TM211 MODE,
THE FIRST ONE
AND THE SECOND ONE.
FOR THE FIRST MODE,
THE AS-TESTED QUALITY FACTOR
WAS JUST A LITTLE OVER 7,000.
WE WERE ABLE TO GET
A LITTLE BIT MORE POWER
INTO THE TEST ARTICLE,
JUST ABOUT 17 WATTS.
THE PEAK THRUST THAT WE OBSERVED
WAS A LITTLE HIGHER,
116 MICRONEWTONS.
THE AVERAGE THRUST
WAS ABOUT 91 MICRONEWTONS.
WHEN WE DID THE NULL FORCE TEST,
WE MEASURED A 9.6 MICRONEWTON
NULL FORCE.
THAT'S, AGAIN,
WITH THAT RF LOAD BRICK
THAT WE SHOWED YOU
WITH THE CANNAE TEST ARTICLE.
THE COMSOL ANALYSIS PREDICTED
A QUALITY FACTOR
OF JUST A LITTLE UNDER 8,000.
AND WITH AN INPUT POWER
OF 17 WATTS,
IT PREDICTED AN OBSERVED THRUST
OF 313 MICRONEWTONS.
SO WE WERE A LITTLE OFF
BY ABOUT A FACTOR OF THREE
WITH THAT PARTICULAR MODE.
AND THIS GOES THROUGH AND SHOWS
SOME OF THE DATA RUNS
FOR THE TM211 MODE.
YOU SEE THE CALIBRATION PULSE,
AND THEN TURNING
THE RF AMPLIFIER ON,
DOING A LITTLE BIT
OF MANUAL TUNING.
YOU CAN ALSO SEE,
WHEN YOU'RE GETTING
INTO THE 100 MICRONEWTONS,
IT'S--IN COMPARISON
TO THE CALIBRATION PULSE,
IT'S STARTING TO BE
PRETTY LARGE.
THIS SHOWS THE NULL TEST,
PUTTING THE RF LOAD ON THERE,
JUST TO GO THROUGH AND SEE
WHAT TYPE OF SYSTEMIC SOURCES
OR AIR WE MIGHT HAVE,
AND SO THAT GOES THROUGH
AND SHOWS YOU
THAT JUST A LITTLE OVER
9 MICRONEWTONS OF FORCE
IS A RESULT OF THE--
MAY BE TIED TO THE 5.6 AMPS
THAT WENT TO THE RF AMPLIFIER.
WE ALSO TESTED
AT THE SECOND TM211 MODE.
THIS ONE WAS A BETTER RF MODE,
BUT IT WAS A LESS CAPABLE
Q-THRUSTER MODE
BASED ON THE ANALYSIS
AND WHAT WE SAW WITH THE DATA.
SO THE AS-TESTED QUALITY FACTOR
WAS 18,100,
VERSUS THE ABOUT 8,000
FOR THE PREVIOUS TM211 MODE.
ABOUT THE SAME POWER LEVEL.
THE NET AVERAGE STRESS
WE PICKED UP
WITH THIS PARTICULAR MODE
WAS JUST ABOUT 50 MICRONEWTONS.
AND THE COMSOL ANALYSIS
FOR THE TM211
DOES PREDICT
IT IS A BETTER RF SYSTEM,
AT 32,000 QUALITY FACTOR.
AND WITH AN INPUT POWER OF 16,
JUST A LITTLE UNDER 17 WATTS,
CORRECTING FOR THE DIFFERENCE
IN THE AS-BUILT QUALITY FACTOR
VERSUS A THEORETICAL,
WE'RE PREDICTING A THRUST
OF AROUND 47 MICRONEWTONS.
SO, WHAT WE FOUND FROM THIS
IS THAT THERE DOES SEEM TO BE
TWO DIFFERENT SETS
OF OPTIMIZATION DIALS WE HAVE
TO TRY AND FURTHER EXPLORE.
ONE HAS TO DO
WITH RF OPTIMIZATION,
AND THE OTHER HAS TO DO
WITH THE Q-THRUSTER PHYSICS.
AND THEY DON'T NECESSARILY
HAVE THE SAME DEPENDENCIES.
WE DID FIND
THAT HAVING A DIELECTRIC
IN THE TAPERED PORTION
OF THE THRUSTER
WAS EXTREMELY IMPORTANT
ON THE MAGNITUDE OF THE THRUST.
WE SAW THAT BOTH
IN THE ANALYSIS
AND IN THE TEST,
BECAUSE WE DID TEST
THE TE012 MODE
WITH NO DIELECTRIC PRESENCE
IN THE THRUSTER,
AND IT DIDN'T GENERATE--
IT DID NOT GENERATE ANY FORCE
TO WITHIN THE RESOLUTION LEVEL
OF THE TORSION PENDULUM
UP TO 30 WATTS,
WHICH ALSO MATCHED
THE PREDICTED PERFORMANCE.
NOW, THE NPU WORK THAT WAS DONE
HERE IN THE LAST YEAR,
THEY PUBLISHED SOME RESULTS.
THEY'VE WORKED IN MUCH HIGHER
POWER LEVELS THAN WE HAVE.
I THINK WE'D LIKE TO CONTINUE
TO WORK IN THE LOW POWER.
OUR TORSION PENDULUM
REALLY HELPS US
KIND OF EXPLORE THE BASICS.
BUT THEY DID EXPLORE 80 WATTS
UP TO 2 1/2 KILOWATTS,
CONSIDERABLY MORE FORCE,
UP TO THE HUNDREDS OF MILLIONS,
WITH A THRUST TO POWER
THAT WAS A LITTLE BIT HIGHER
THAN ANYTHING WE'VE WORKED WITH,
UP TO 1 NEWTON PER KILOWATT.
THEY USED AN INVERTED
PENDULUM THRUST STAND,
KIND OF A STANDARD
DESIGN APPROACH
WHERE IT USES NULL DISPLACEMENT.
SO YOU SEE THE--
THIS IS THE INVERTED PENDULUM
THRUST STAND RIGHT HERE,
AND IT USES THESE COILS
TO HOLD THE INVERTED PENDULUM
AT THE ZERO DISPLACEMENT
BASED ON THE FEEDBACK
FROM THIS SENSOR SYSTEM,
AND THAT'S HOW THEY GO THROUGH
AND MEASURE
AND CHARACTERIZE FORCE.
IN THIS CASE,
THIS IS THE TEST ARTICLE.
THE MICROWAVE
WOULD BE DOWN HERE.
IT WOULD COME IN
THROUGH A CIRCULATOR.
THIS IS A LOAD OVER HERE,
AND THEN IT WOULD GO UP HERE
AND ENERGIZE A SYSTEM.
AND THIS GOES TO AND SHOWS
THEIR WORK THEY DID
WITH THE 80 TO 1.2 KILOWATTS.
AND THEY'VE GOT
UP TO 0.9 NEWTONS PER KILOWATT,
AND THEN THEY ALSO DID WORK
WITH ANOTHER MAGNETRON DESIGN
THAT WENT UP TO 2 1/2 KILOWATTS.
AND, AGAIN, THEY SAW
CONSIDERABLY HIGHER FORCES
THAN ANYTHING WE'VE LOOKED AT.
AGAIN, WE'RE CONTENT TO WORK
AT THE LOW POWER FOR NOW.
IN TERMS
OF THE VALUE PROPOSITION
WITH SOME OF THE EXPERIENCE
WE'VE SEEN WITH THESE THINGS,
A LOT OF PEOPLE
ALWAYS WANT TO KNOW,
"THIS IS INTERESTING AND FINE,
"BUT WHAT DOES IT LOOK LIKE
IF YOU TRY AND APPLY IT
TO AN APPLICATION?"
AND SO, IF YOU'VE GOT A SYSTEM
THAT'S CAPABLE
OF GENERATING 0.4 NEWTONS
PER KILOWATT,
IT'S CERTAINLY NOT GONNA
LIFT ITSELF OFF THE GROUND,
BUT IT IS POTENTIALLY A USEFUL
IN-SPACE PROPULSION SYSTEM.
AND SO WE LOOKED AT WHAT HAPPENS
IF YOU HAVE 0.4 NEWTONS
PER KILOWATT
WITH SOME TYPE OF A STACK
THAT'S IN A DISTANT RETROGRADE
ORBIT AROUND THE MOON.
SO THIS IS KIND OF LINKING BACK
TO THE ASTEROID MISSION.
AND SO YOU'VE GOT
SOME STACKED MASS
THAT'S ABOUT THE RIGHT MASS
FOR SOME TYPE OF AGGREGATE
OF MODULES THAT WE MIGHT USE
IN HUMAN SPACE FLIGHT.
BUT WE'RE CONSTRAINED
WITH ONLY 300 KILOWATTS
OF SOLAR POWER.
SO, IN TERMS OF THE THINGS
THAT WE HAVE ON THE HORIZON,
THAT'S ONE OF THE CONSTRAINTS
THAT WE HAVE TO REALLY SALUTE.
WE'RE NOT GONNA BE GIVEN
VERY BIG ARRAYS
THAT HAVE HUGE VALUES
ASSOCIATED WITH THEM.
300 KILOWATTS IS
A VERY REALISTIC CONSTRAINT
THAT WE NEED
TO TRY AND WORK WITH
AND TRY TO DO THE MOST WE CAN
WITH WHAT WE'VE GOT.
SO, IN THIS CASE,
WITH A 70-TON STACK
DEPARTING FROM
A DISTANT RETROGRADE ORBIT
WITH 300 KILOWATTS
OF SOLAR POWER,
WE CAN GO TO A 50-DAY MISSION
AROUND DEIMOS
AND GET BACK TO EARTH
IN 788 DAYS.
THE OTHER THING WE DID WAS,
WE CONSTRAINED IT
SO THAT YOU WOULD NOT GO
IN VENUS' ORBIT.
AND SO, IN ORDER TO KIND OF
MATCH THE PLANETARY BILLIARDS,
THE SPACECRAFT SWINGS OUT
TO 2 A.U.
TO TRY AND WAIT FOR EARTH
TO GET INTO
A MORE FAVORABLE ALIGNMENT,
KIND OF LIKE
A HIGH YO-YO MANEUVER,
FOR THE PILOTS
THE THAT ARE IN THE GROUP.
NOW, IF WE EVER DID
HAVE SOME TYPE
OF A CONSISTENT POWER SOURCE
THAT WERE UP TO
A COUPLE OF MEGAWATTS--
I LOOKED AT,
"WHAT COULD YOU DO
WITH 0.4 NEWTONS PER KILOWATT
WITH 2 MEGAWATTS OF POWER
FOR A 90-TON SPACECRAFT?"
OUT OF THAT,
50 TONS WOULD BE CARGO.
20 TONS WOULD BE ALLOCATED
TO THE NUCLEAR REACTOR,
SO THAT'S ABOUT 10 KILOGRAMS
PER KILOWATT.
FOR FOLKS THAT ARE FAMILIAR
WITH REACTORS WE'VE LOOKED AT
IN THE PAST,
WE'RE NOT TRYING
TO BE OVERLY AGGRESSIVE
IN TERMS OF WHAT
THE REACTOR WOULD HAVE TO BE
IN TERMS OF THE SPECIFIC MASS.
AND THEN 10 KILOGRAMS
PER KILOWATT FOR THE Q-THRUSTER.
SO THAT'S ABOUT TWICE
WHAT YOU'D DO
FOR A HALL THRUSTER,
SO WE TRIED TO BE
JUST A LITTLE SLOPPY WITH THAT.
YOU GET A LITTLE BIT DIFFERENT
LOOK AND FEEL
THAN WHAT WE SAW
IN THE PREVIOUS SLIDE.
THE PREVIOUS SLIDE LOOKS MORE
LIKE A TRADITIONAL
LOW-THRUST MISSION.
BUT WHAT HAPPENS HERE
IS THAT THE THRUST-TO-MASS
FOR THE SPACECRAFT
ACTUALLY BREAKS 0.6 MILLI-Gs.
SO WHEN YOU'RE IN HELIOCENTRIC
SPACE AT 1 A.U.,
0.6 MILLI-Gs IS THE ATTRACTION
TO THE SUN,
SO WHAT HAPPENS IF YOU HAVE
ANY SPACECRAFT OF ANY KIND
WITH POWER
AND ELECTRIC PROPULSION,
IF IT CAN EXCEED
THAT 0.6 MILLI-Gs,
THEN YOU MIGHT BE ABLE TO DO
INTERESTING THINGS LIKE THAT.
SO, INDEPENDENT
OF THE Q-THRUSTERS,
THAT'S JUST
AN INTERESTING METRIC
THAT WE FOUND IN THE PROCESS
OF EXPLORING THAT.
I THINK I'M RUNNING
REALLY LOW ON TIME,
SO LET ME JUST POP THROUGH
TO THE PLAN FORWARD.
SO, MOVING FORWARD,
WE WANT TO IMPLEMENT
A PHASE LOCK LOOP
THAT PREVENTS US--
THAT PRECLUDES US
FROM HAVING TO DO MANUAL TUNING.
WE CAN BASICALLY HAVE ALMOST
LIGHT SWITCH-LIKE RELIABILITY.
WE WANT TO BE ABLE TO GATHER
A CONSIDERABLE MORE--
A LARGER AMOUNT OF DATA OVER
MULTIPLE OPERATING CONDITIONS.
WE WANT TO DO
SOME POWER SCANNING.
WE WANT TO CONTINUE TO EVALUATE
SOME DIFFERENT RF MODES
AND EXPLORE SOME DIFFERENT
ANTENNA CONFIGURATIONS.
AND THEN THE TEST SYSTEM
THAT WE HAVE NOW,
THE AMPLIFIER THAT WE PROCURED
HAS THE ABILITY TO BE TESTED
AT VACUUM,
AND SO THAT'S OUR NEXT STEP.
THEN, INSTEAD OF DOING
A TEST WITH AN RF DUMMY LOAD,
WE WANT TO PERFORM
FUTURE NULL TESTS
WITH THE THRUSTER
ACTUALLY ROTATED ORTHOGONAL
TO THE THRUST EXIT.
SO WE WANT TO LEAVE THE THRUSTER
ON THE TORSION PENDULUM,
TEST IN ONE DIRECTION,
THE OTHER DIRECTION,
AND THEN ROTATE IT
WHERE IT'S ORTHOGONAL
TO THE THRUST VECTOR.
AND THEN, ONCE WE'VE POUNDED
ALL THAT FLAT, UH,
WE'VE BEEN TALKING
WITH GLENN RESEARCH CENTER
ABOUT DOING SOME INDEPENDENT
VERIFICATION AND VALIDATION
IN THEIR VACUUM CHAMBER.
THEY HAVE A LOW-THRUST
TORSION PENDULUM
THAT WE CAN UTILIZE
TO GO THROUGH AND EXPLORE
WHAT IT DOES IN THAT FACILITY.
AND JOHNS HOPKINS
HAS ALSO TALKED
ABOUT DOING SOME TYPE
OF CAVENDISH BALANCE TEST
WITH THE IV&V SHIPSET.
SO I THINK WITH THAT,
I'M JUST ABOUT ALMOST
UP TO MY TIME.
SO I'LL HAND IT OVER
TO QUESTIONS.
[applause]
- OKAY, QUESTIONS, EVERYBODY.
- THANK YOU FOR COMING HERE.
- YES, SIR.
- I HAVE A HYPOTHETICAL FOR YOU.
IF YOU HAD AN UNLIMITED BUDGET
AND A MISSION TO GET YOURSELF
TO ALPHA CENTAURI
AND HAD TO CHOOSE BETWEEN
AN ALCUBIERRE TYPE WARP DRIVE
AND AN ANTIMATTER DRIVE--
IT WOULD BE, OF COURSE,
SUBLUMINAL--
WHICH WOULD YOU THINK WOULD BE
THE MORE PRACTICAL CHOICE?
- THAT'S A GREAT QUESTION.
I WOULD--I'M GONNA ANSWER
YOUR QUESTION.
I'M NOT GONNA PICK A HORSE.
I WOULD PROBABLY DO BOTH,
FROM THE STANDPOINT--
IF I HAD THE UNLIMITED BUDGET
THAT YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT,
I WOULD LIKE TO HAVE
MULTIPLE PATHS
TO MAYBE GREATER--
OR EXCUSE ME--INCREASE
THE LIKELIHOOD OF SUCCESS.
- OKAY, LET ME FRAME IT;
YOU ONLY GET TO PICK ONE.
- I ONLY GET--OH, I ONLY
GET TO PICK ONE.
I DON'T KNOW THAT I'M
PREPARED TO ANSWER THAT.
IF YOU HAVE AN UNLIMITED BUDGET
AND YOU WANT TO COME BACK
AND TELL ME,
THEN I'LL MAKE A DECISION,
RIGHT?
YES.
I GUESS--OH, YEAH.
- THANK YOU.
MAYBE I MISSED IT.
WHAT EXACTLY PHYSICAL PHENOMENON
ARE YOU MEASURING
IN THESE FEW INTERFEROMETERS,
AND WHAT RESULTS WOULD YOU
CONSIDER POSITIVE OR NEGATIVE?
SO COULD YOU EXPLAIN THIS
A LITTLE BIT?
- YOU'RE ASKING, WHAT ARE WE
TRYING TO MEASURE--
- THESE INTERFEROMETERS...
- YEAH, AN INTERFEROMETER.
- YEAH.
- WE'RE TRYING TO CHANGE
THE OPTICAL PATH LENGTH
IN A VERY SMALL REGION
OF THE INTERFEROMETER
BY HAVING
THE APPROPRIATE CONDITIONS
WITH WHAT THE GENERAL
RELATIVITY REQUIRES,
AND THEN IT SAYS,
IN A LOCAL REGION,
IT'LL CHANGE
THE PERCEIVED PATH LENGTH
FOR THE PHOTON LINE INTEGRALS.
SO THEN THAT'LL MANIFEST ITSELF
IN THE FORM OF A SLIGHT CHANGE
OF THE INTERFERENCE PATTERN.
I MEAN, NOT SOMETHING YOU'RE
GONNA SEE WITH THE NAKED EYE.
IT REQUIRES COMPUTERS TO SEE.
- THANK YOU.
- YEAH, SORRY.
- SINCE I GOT THE MIC...
- HE'S GOT IT.
- COULD I--
REGARDING THE Q-THRUSTER,
COULD I GET YOU TO ADDRESS
THIS WHOLE CONSERVATION
OF MOMENTUM QUESTION?
- ABSOLUTELY, YEAH.
SO THE Q-THRUSTER
DOES CONSERVE MOMENTUM
IF IT WORKS AS WE THINK IT DOES,
BASED ON THE PHYSICS.
IF YOU'RE PUSHING
OFF THE QUANTUM VACUUM,
YOU'RE ESTABLISHING
AN ANISOTROPIC STATE
IN THE QUANTUM VACUUM,
AND SO IT IS PUTTING A WAKE
OUT OF THE BACK OF THE THRUSTER.
AND AT SOME POINT,
IF WE CONTINUE TO SEE GOOD DATA
AND WE RULE OUT
ALL OTHER FALSE POSITIVES,
ONE OF THE THINGS WE WOULD
LIKE TO GO THROUGH AND EXPLORE
IS, WHAT IS
THE MOMENTUM DISTRIBUTION
AND WHAT'S THE DIVERGENCE ANGLE
OF THE WAKE?
AND SO WE WOULD DO THAT
BY USING ANOTHER Q-THRUSTER
THAT WOULD KIND OF RECOUPLE
WITH THE WAKE
IN THE QUANTUM VACUUM
AND TRY AND MEASURE THE WAKE.
- OKAY.
OH, WAIT.
COULD YOU DO CAUSALITY
ON THE OTHER ONE TOO?
- CAUSALITY.
- ON THE WARP DRIVE, HOW--
DO YOU AVOID CAUSALITY
VIOLATION, OR DOES IT HAPPEN?
- YEAH, YOU NEVER LOCALLY
EXCEED THE SPEED OF LIGHT,
SO YOU CAN'T DO ANY--
I LIKE "DOCTOR WHO"
AS MUCH AS THE NEXT GUY,
BUT YOU CAN'T--
THERE'S NO TIME TRAVEL POSSIBLE
WITH THE SPACEWARP.
YEAH.
- THANKS.
THE ALCUBIERRE WARP METRIC
AND OTHER ONES
REQUIRE EXOTIC MATTER.
- MM-HMM.
- HOW--
AND SO, I PRESUME,
IF YOU'RE TRYING TO MAKE
SOME KIND OF ALCUBIERRE THING
ON THE OPTICAL BENCH
WITH THIS INTERFEROMETER,
ARE YOU TRYING TO MAKE EXOTIC
MATTER IN YOUR "TEST ARTICLE"?
WHICH YOU DIDN'T SAY
VERY MUCH ABOUT.
WHAT'S GOING ON
WITH THAT TEST ARTICLE,
AND WHY SHOULD IT BE
AN ALCUBIERRE-LIKE EFFECT?
- YEAH, SO THE LOW-FIDELITY
TEST ARTICLE IS TRYING
TO CREATE A BLUE-SHIFTED FRAME
RELATIVE TO THE LAB.
SO WE'RE JUST USING
A LARGE POTENTIAL ENERGY
WITH OUR LOW-FIDELITY
TEST ARTICLES.
THE HIGHER-FIDELITY TEST ARTICLE
THAT I SHOWED YOU GUYS
A PICTURE OF,
THAT IS BASED
ON THE Q-THRUSTER PHYSICS,
AND SO THAT'S
WHERE WE GO THROUGH
AND WE WORK ON USING
THE NEGATIVE VACUUM ENERGY
TO TRY AND SATISFY
ALL THE EXPLICIT REQUIREMENTS
OF THE FIELD EQUATIONS.
SO THAT TEST ARTICLE IS TRYING
TO ESTABLISH MORE ACCURATELY
THE REQUIREMENTS AS SET UP
BY THE MATHEMATICS,
WORKING WITH
NEGATIVE VACUUM ENERGY,
CASIMIR FORCE.
- BUT WAIT--
OH, AM I OFF?
OKAY, BUT--
MAYBE WE COULD TAKE THIS OFFLINE
IF IT'S TOO TECHNICAL.
BUT E-FIELDS, B-FIELDS,
THE KIND OF THINGS YOU GET
INSIDE OF A RESONANT CAVITY
OR WITH CAPACITORS AND COILS,
NONE OF THOSE ARE EXOTIC MATTER.
THOSE ARE ALL JUST
STANDARD MASS ENERGY,
NOT THE KIND THAT YOU NEED
FOR THE ALCUBIERRE METRIC,
WHICH HAS THE OPPOSITE SIGN,
WHICH NO ONE KNOWS HOW TO MAKE.
- LET ME ANSWER YOUR QUESTION.
AND WE HAD SOME OF THIS
DISCUSSION ACTUALLY YESTERDAY
IN YOUR OFFICE.
WE WERE TALKING ABOUT
SOME OF THE Q-THRUSTER PHYSICS.
SO, IN TERMS
OF THE Q-THRUSTER PHYSICS,
WE'RE NOT JUST LOOKING
AT CLASSICAL E&M.
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
WHAT THAT POTENTIALLY DOES
IN THE QUANTUM VACUUM
BASED ON THE PHYSICS MODELS
ASSOCIATED WITH
THE Q-THRUSTER PHYSICS.
SO WITH THE Q-THRUSTER PHYSICS,
IT POTENTIALLY PROVIDES
A CONNECTION
TO A PERTURBED STATE
IN THE QUANTUM VACUUM.
SO, YES,
JUST THE PURE E&M FIELDS,
BY THE CLASSICAL SENSE,
THEY'RE REALLY NOT OF INTEREST.
WHAT'S OF INTEREST TO US IS,
WHAT DOES THAT MEAN
WHEN WE LOOK AT IT FROM THE
Q-THRUSTER PHYSICS PERSPECTIVE?
SO THAT'S THE ONLY REASON
WHY THERE'S INTEREST IN THAT.
- OKAY, SO LET ME SEE
IF I UNDERSTAND THIS.
IF YOU JUST HAD
THE E&B FIELDS,
YOU WOULD EXPECT
NO EXOTIC EFFECT,
BUT IF YOU HAVE
THESE DIELECTRICS, OR WHATEVER,
INSIDE OF IT SO THAT YOU'RE
GETTING THIS STRONG COUPLING,
THEN MAYBE YOU WOULD SEE
AN EXOTIC EFFECT?
- YOU MADE TOO STRONG
OF A STATEMENT.
I THINK THAT THERE'S--
IN THE PROCESS OF EXPLORING
WHAT Q-THRUSTER PHYSICS MEANS
FOR THE MAGNITUDE
OF E&B FIELDS
AND HOW THAT MIGHT BE COUPLED
TO WHAT'S POTENTIALLY GOING ON
IN THE QUANTUM VACUUM,
IN PRINCIPLE, RIGHT,
YOU HAVE TO HAVE
THE RIGHT CONDITIONS
TO GET THE MAGNITUDE OF
AN EFFECT THAT YOU CAN MEASURE.
BUT YOU WERE TOO GENERAL
WITH YOUR STATEMENT,
SO I CAN'T AGREE WITH YOU
COMPLETELY WITH THAT.
ANYWAY...
- OKAY, THANK YOU.
- WE HAVE ONE MORE
QUESTION HERE.
- OKAY.
- THIS IS VERY--
CAN YOU HEAR ME?
THIS IS VERY NON-TECHNICAL,
MORE OF A POPULAR SCIENCE
MAGAZINE TYPE QUESTION FOR YOU,
SO BE AMBIGUOUS IF YOU WANT TO.
BUT, ASSUMING THAT
ALL YOUR MEASUREMENTS
ARE NOT DOMINATED
BY SYSTEMATIC NOISES
THAT YOU MIGHT NOT HAVE REALIZED
AT THIS POINT,
ASSUMING THAT ALL THOSE
MEASUREMENTS ARE CORRECT,
AND--SORRY?
- I DIDN'T HEAR THAT LAST PART.
- OH, ASSUMING THAT ALL THOSE
MEASUREMENTS ARE CORRECT,
THAT THEY'RE NOT DOMINATED
BY NOISE
THAT YOU HAVEN'T ACCOUNTED FOR.
AND IN A FICTIONAL WORLD
WHERE YOU WILL HAVE FUNDING
TO CONTINUE PURSUING THIS
AT A COMFORTABLE LEVEL
FOR THE NEXT 20 YEARS,
WHERE DO YOU ENVISION
THIS TECHNOLOGY TO BE
IN 20 YEARS TIME?
IS THIS SOMETHING
THAT WE'LL BE ABLE TO USE
TO SEND SATELLITES
TO OTHER PLANETS?
- YOU KNOW,
THAT'S A BIG QUESTION.
I DON'T HAVE A GOOD ANSWER
FOR YOU.
I MEAN, CERTAINLY YOU'D LIKE
TO MAKE A LOT OF PROGRESS,
BUT, I MEAN,
THERE'S NO SHORTCUTS, RIGHT?
YOU KNOW, IT'S DEFINITELY
CRAWL, WALK, RUN.
WE'LL TRY AND MAKE
AS MUCH PROGRESS AS WE CAN
WITHIN THE RESOURCES
THAT WE HAVE.
AND, BASICALLY, THE DATA'S
REALLY GOING TO DRIVE
THAT DISCUSSION, RIGHT?
I MEAN, YOU KNOW,
IN GOD WE TRUST;
EVERYBODY ELSE, BRING DATA.
SO DATA'S REALLY GOING TO DRIVE
THAT DISCUSSION.
SO I'M SORRY IT'S NOT LIKE--
YOU KNOW, I CAN'T GIVE YOU
A GOOD QUIP ANSWER,
BUT, YEAH, JUST--
THERE'S NO SHORTCUTS,
RIGHT, SO...
- I TOLD YOU,
YOU COULD BE AMBIGUOUS.
THAT'S FINE.
- YEAH.
- OKAY, PLEASE JOIN ME
IN THANKING DR. WHITE.
[applause]
[musical tones]
[electronic sounds of data]